 
CONTACT
	rajesh.747.bits@gmail.com
	(310) 402-7095
	Los Angeles, CA
	linkedin.com/in/rajeshpothamsetty
	github.com/rpothamLearner

EDUCATION
2018
Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta GA
Masters in Computer Science – Machine Learning Specialization
	Big Data in Health Informatics
	Artificial Intelligence
	 Human-Computer Interaction
2016
University of California, Los Angeles CA
Master of Mathematical Finance
	Computational Methods
	Financial Data Analytics
2012
Birla Institute of Technology & Science, India
Bachelor of Science in Engineering
	Robotics

TECHNICAL SKILLS
	Machine Learning
	Time Series Analysis
	Natural Language Processing
	Statistics and Probability
	Data Visualization
	Object Oriented Programming
	Programming Language:
•	Python Stack (Numpy, Pandas, scikit-Learn, Keras), R, Apache Spark (NLP pipeline).
	Data Management: 
•	MySQL, Apache Spark, Apache Drill, AWS (Basic)
 
EXPERIENCE
March, 2017 - PRESENT
Financial Engineer / Data Scientist | Intercontinental Exchange, Inc

•	Developed an ensemble model to classify mortgages in to prepay, default and payment. Built an ETL pipeline to process 20 million records from agencies. Additional features such as economic and borrower demographic variables with importance were extracted from FRED, Housing Dept etc. Improved accuracy by 65% in identifying default loans.
•	Developed an on premise server health monitor dashboard which provided intuitive and dynamic visualization of critical variables like (load, memory leakage, heap, thread count) for 500+ servers using markdown, html rendering and dplyr. Processed ~200GB of daily data.
•	Developed multiple OOP modules to improve the efficiency of ETL process of agency data (~10m records; Fannie, Freddie Mac). Automated data feed quality verification process of daily tolerances, price, agency ratings and portfolio analytics.

April 2018 – July 2018 
Freelance Data Scientist | Method Data Science, LLC 
•	Developed a content-based filtering business recommendation system to identify similar users and similar business based on 6million Yelp user reviews using NLP modules in PySpark MLlib and Apache-Drill Parquet files for querying. Pre-processed reviews via Regex Tokenizer, Stop Words etc., recommendation via TF-IDF and Word2Vec model with cosine similarity.

April 2016 – Nov 2016
Quantitative Researcher | Logica Capital Advisors, LLC 
•	Created generic modules for data processing, ranking and portfolio generation to accommodate custom risk factors, improved turnaround time by 200%.
•	Developed a framework in R for testing risk factors such as price ratios, RSI and price proxy for value and momentum.
•	Performed Principle Component Analysis to identify 7 most significant factors out of 19 that explain the variance in returns and applied KNN clustering on 1000 stocks to form co-integrated portfolios for excess alpha.
•	Created a pair’s trading back-testing framework that uses co-integration heat-map of stocks, along with the implementation of Kalman filter and OLS regressions for dynamic hedge ratio of pairs.

ACADEMIC PROJECTS
•	Context based weighting for the prediction of mortality in the ICU using Long Short Term Memory Network and a 5 layered Deep NN with an Adam optimizer and 20% dropout with an AUC ~90% and 98.5% respectively.
•	Applied Finance Project (The HOD Group, Luxembourg): Optimized the existing multi-asset allocation system by overlaying dual momentum (VIX modulated) and market timing signals such as Absorption Ratio, Variance Risk Premium. Improved the portfolio performance and drawdown characteristics.
